Flutter q2 survey blog (#13688)
flutter/website: sites/www/content/blog/flutter-q2-2026-survey/index.md

---
title: "Flutter Q2 2026 survey — trust, transparency, and an evolving community"
description: >-
  The Flutter Q2 2026 user survey results are in!
  Discover developer satisfaction, trust levels, AI coding tool adoption,
  and updates on Cupertino widgets.
publishDate: 2026-08-06
author: twerske
image: images/q2-survey-header.webp
category: announcement
layout: blog
---

<DashImage figure src="images/q2-survey-header.webp" />

The Flutter team has been running user surveys twice a year
since Flutter's 1.0 release in 2018.
The Q2 2026 survey ran from June 8 to June 22,
collecting over 3,500 complete responses through Flutter's IDE plugins
(VS Code, IntelliJ, Android Studio), X, and our website.
We asked about:
- Overall satisfaction and trust, by focus area and developer segment
- Which editors and AI coding agents you use in your daily workflow
- Your perception of Flutter and Google

> Overall, 93% of the 3,500+ respondents were positively satisfied

Reviewer: were positively satisfied > reported positive satisfaction

One outlier: Zed sits at just 38% top-2 box satisfaction,
well below every other tool in the list, even though usage is still small (5%).
We don't have enough qualitative detail yet,
but we’ll continue to explore how tooling choice affects people’s
satisfaction with Flutter overall.

This isn't a new trend to us.
Vibe coding with Flutter has been on our radar for a while.
We shipped the [Dart MCP server](https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/mcp-server)
in mid-2025,
and Google I/O included the launch of
[official Agent Skills for Flutter and Dart](https://github.com/flutter/skills)
along with [agentic hot
reload](https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/antigravity#agentic-hot-reload)
(task-oriented instructions that work across any agent).
We’ve continued shipping, with a
[Flutter Antigravity plugin](https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/antigravity),
and are in the process of collaborating with other major agentic tools
to ensure Flutter plugins are available out of the box.

We want Flutter to be a first-party,
well-supported target for every major agentic coding tool,
and we're partnering both inside Google and with outside teams to make
that true.
Our current investment spans core models, eval systems,

> and a combination of Skills and MCP tools to ensure a high-quality

Reviewer: I think we can keep "skills" lowercase here (I'd actually argue that "Agent Skills" should be lowercase but I'm fine keeping it consistent with what we have on https://github.com/flutter/agent-plugins

[migrations to use built-in Kotlin](https://docs.flutter.dev/release/breaking-changes/migrate-to-built-in-kotlin).

To eliminate the usual version-matching guesswork,
we now include a compatibility matrix in our
["What's New in Flutter" blog](https://flutter.dev/blog?category=release)
that maps out supported combinations of Java, Kotlin, Gradle,
and the Android Gradle Plugin.
We have also built smart fallbacks directly into our build tools so that
when major platform changes arrive
(like Android Gradle Plugin 9's transition to built-in Kotlin),
your existing projects and legacy plugins will continue to compile safely.
Our goal is to handle these complex transitions behind the scenes,
providing clear, actionable feedback when conflicts do arise so you can
get back to writing code.

Meanwhile, on iOS and macOS, **Flutter 3.44** made Swift Package Manager
the default dependency manager to replace CocoaPods,
with 92 of the top 100 iOS plugins already migrated.

- **Tooling and IDE experience (33%)**:
  Centered on wanting deeper Android Studio integration:
more AI tooling, more native support, better visualization.

> Our current AI investments are to build AI tooling that can be used with any

Reviewer: Slightly smoother wording: "Our current AI investments are focused on building AI tooling that can be used with any agent, regardless of your IDE."

agent agnostic of your IDE. This includes the Dart MCP server and Agent Skills work,
which predate this survey's fielding.
That said, Android Studio didn’t have MCP support when we first launched
Dart MCP,

> but we now have it on our to-do list to ensure our tooling works there.

Reviewer: This is worded slightly awkwardly to my ears - maybe instead something like: "we're working on making sure our tooling works there next"

- **Bugs and stability (24%)**:
Pointed at debug tooling specifically, such as breakpoints
that stick around after being removed
and a performance timeline view several developers found confusing.
We want to be straightforward here: we don't have a shipped fix,
but if you have details or reproductions we can use to debug further,
please file an issue on GitHub.

- **UI/UX aesthetics (14%)**:
Was the smallest theme by volume,
but it's the one most directly tied to Cupertino's score drop,
so it deserves its own section, right below.

## Cupertino widgets: a new chapter

Cupertino widgets dropped 6 points to 61% top-2 box,
marking the steepest decline anywhere in the survey
and becoming our lowest-rated area.
Several developers described feeling like Flutter's promise of
native-feeling apps
hadn't kept pace specifically for iOS-style design,
expressing concern that native design systems got deprioritized
once they became difficult to maintain inside the core framework.
While we are watching this feedback closely, this doesn’t come as a surprise.

> We intentionally paused work in Cupertino to execute on decoupling

Reviewer: instead of "paused work in Cupertino" > "paused work on Cupertino widgets"

But right behind them are AI coding agents: Claude Code at 32%
and Antigravity at 23%,
both now ahead of GitHub Copilot (19%), Cursor (18%), and Codex (17%).
(A note on methodology: respondents can use one or multiple editors,
so these numbers add up way beyond 100%.)

<DashImage figure src="images/editor-agent-usage.webp" alt="Bar chart of editor and agent usage among Flutter developers, ranked highest to lowest" caption="VS Code (66%) and Android Studio (40%) still lead, but Claude Code (32%) and Antigravity (23%) are now ahead of every other AI coding tool." />

Satisfaction with most editors clustered high: VS Code at 88% top-2 box,
Claude Code at 86%, and Codex at 85%.
One outlier: Zed sits at just 38% top-2 box satisfaction,
well below every other tool in the list, even though usage is still small (5%).
We don't have enough qualitative detail yet,
but we’ll continue to explore how tooling choice affects people’s
satisfaction with Flutter overall.

This isn't a new trend to us.
Vibe coding with Flutter has been on our radar for a while.
We shipped the [Dart MCP server](https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/mcp-server)
in mid-2025,
and Google I/O included the launch of

> [official Agent Skills for Flutter and Dart](https://github.com/flutter/skills)

Reviewer 2: This repository has a new name. Consider instead linking to the docs about them: https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/agent-skills

```suggestion
[official Agent Skills for Flutter and Dart](https://docs.flutter.dev/ai/agent-skills)
```
